---
title: 2.1. CSCTF 2024 - Challenges
categories:
  - CTFs
  - CSCTF 2024
  - 2. Challenges
tags:
  - CTFs
  - CSCTF 2024
  - How to organize a CTF competition
  - Challenges
toc: true
---

---
> Challenges - methodology, insights, reasoning, templates

---
<!-- more -->

<br>

## Overview

<br>

## Introduction to CTF Challenges

<br>

### Significance to Participants
Highlight the importance of challenges in the CTF competition, emphasizing their critical role in engaging participants for 48 hours. Explain how these challenges were the centerpiece of the event, captivating users' attention and fostering competitive spirit.

<br>

### Categories and Quantity
Discuss the diverse categories and extensive range of challenges—approximately 60—that participants encountered. Explain how each category presented unique puzzles and problems for contestants to solve.

<br>

## Cloud Infrastructure and Kubernetes

<br>

### Cloud-Powered Replicas
Explain the significance of cloud infrastructure, particularly Kubernetes, in ensuring seamless challenge availability. Describe Kubernetes' role in managing replicas to serve different pods, ensuring uninterrupted access to challenges even if one pod faces issues.

<br>

### File System Evolution
Highlight the iterative process of changing the file system structure over four iterations. Describe the rationale behind these changes and how they were pivotal in establishing an optimal and logical structure for challenge management.

<br>

## Key Aspects of Challenges

<br>

### Challenge Complexity
Discuss the varying levels of complexity across challenges, catering to participants with different skill sets and expertise. Explain how this diversity added depth to the competition.

<br>

### Engagement and Interaction
Detail how challenges encouraged active engagement and interaction among participants. Discuss strategies employed to promote collaboration or competition among contestants.

<br>

### Real-World Relevance
Emphasize the real-world applicability or significance of challenges, showcasing how they simulated scenarios encountered in cybersecurity or practical problem-solving.

<br>

## Evolution and Adaptation

<br>

### Continuous Improvements
Share insights into how challenges evolved throughout the competition, incorporating feedback or insights from user interactions or testing.

<br>

### Structural Adaptations
Elaborate on how structural changes in challenge arrangement aimed to optimize user experience and facilitate logical navigation.

<br>

## Conclusion

<br>

### Participant Feedback and Reception
Discuss the feedback received from participants regarding the challenges. Highlight positive responses or areas for improvement based on user experiences during the 48-hour competition.

<br>

### Future Developments
Offer a glimpse into potential future developments or enhancements for challenges in subsequent editions of SMCC, based on lessons learned and user feedback.


<br>

---
---