---
title: 2.3. CSCTF 2024 - Challenges - Dynamic Flags
categories:
  - CTFs
  - CSCTF 2024
  - 2. Challenges
tags:
  - CTFs
  - CSCTF 2024
  - How to organize a CTF competition
  - Challenges
  - Dynamic Flags
toc: true
---

---
> Dynamic flags - generate a new flag every 5 minutes to impose automation and fight flag stealing.

---
<!-- more -->

<br>

## Introduction to Dynamic Flags

Welcome to the exploration of Dynamic Flags within the captivating CTF challenges at SMCC 2024! This blog post delves into the innovative use of dynamic flags, their role in deterring cheating, and their impact on user engagement and automation.

<br>

### Purpose and Significance
Highlight the role of dynamic flags in enhancing the integrity of the CTF challenges. Emphasize their significance in reducing cheating instances and promoting fair gameplay among participants.

<br>

### Automation and Challenge Difficulty
Discuss how dynamic flags added complexity by requiring automation for certain processes. Explain their role in elevating the difficulty level of challenges, catering to participants with advanced skill sets.

<br>

## Implementation and Mechanism

<br>

### Dynamic Flag Update Cycle
Detail the mechanism of dynamic flags, explaining how a script updates these flags in the database at regular intervals, say every 5 minutes. Emphasize the importance of this cycle in ensuring up-to-date flags and detecting potential cheating attempts.

<br>

### Log Monitoring and Cheating Detection
Explain how the logs capture flag updates, allowing organizers to track flag changes and potentially identify cheating behaviors. Showcase the significance of dynamic flags in providing an added layer of security and fairness.

<br>

## User Experience and Transparency

<br>

### Challenge Description Clarity
Highlight how challenge descriptions specify the usage of dynamic flags, informing participants of their presence in certain exercises. Emphasize transparency in ensuring participants are aware of the challenge dynamics.

<br>

### Dedicated CTFd Page for Dynamic Flags
Discuss the creation of a dedicated page on the CTFd website, detailing exercises with dynamic flags. Explain how this page educates participants about these flags, offering insights into their functionality and purpose.

<br>

## Impact and Feedback

<br>

### Enhanced Engagement
Discuss the impact of dynamic flags on user engagement, encouraging participants to adapt and develop strategies for real-time flag retrieval.

<br>

### Participant Reception
Share insights into participant feedback regarding dynamic flags, showcasing positive responses or any challenges faced by contestants. Highlight learnings and potential improvements based on user experiences.

<br>

## Future Iterations and Improvements

<br>

### Evolving Dynamic Flags
Offer a glimpse into potential improvements or adaptations for dynamic flags in future editions of SMCC. Discuss plans to refine their implementation, based on lessons learned and participant feedback.

<br>

<br>

---
---